[Music]
for weeks now in Beijing there hasn't
been any point in getting up early the
only reason to do so is to check the
latest number of new infections right
after waking up have you figures they're
almost 45,000 confirmed cases of the
illness I came to work in China as a
journalist in 2007 and got married to
Lulu from Beijing we have one son and
live in a housing complex in the north
of the city I travel around china a lot
making reports but now I've been
grounded maniacally - better still okay
[Music]
cordons have been erected around cities
but also around entire provinces as well
as city districts and even every housing
complex outside my neighborhood block
uniformed men check everyone's comings
and goings the neighborhood committees
are important cogs in the Communist
Party's security apparatus there to
monitor residents political and social
behavior now they're functioning as
health police temperature checks
enforced quarantines upon leaving the
city mandatory face masks Beijing's
residents have bit-by-bit
disappeared from the face of the city
their movements curtailed by the regime
and their own fear the only report that
I can make is one about standstill a
quarantine diary the day's seemed
uneventful but they raised many
questions about China's future there's
one good thing about the situation now
that our family is together 24/7 we're
more United than ever
I've even persuaded my son to help me we
have to catch water
the tap water is undrinkable
so water containers are delivered on
most days but since our district was
cordoned off we have to collect them
ourselves
my son is lucky because the barricade
isn't very high
since the outbreak of the virus Lulu and
I have been wearing his and hers fashion
accessories face masks mine black hers
white Lulu is unhappy she can no longer
wear lipstick
but since the quarantine started the
wearing of face masks has been strongly
advised basically if you leave the
apartment without one you'll be stopped
the remaining entry point to our
district has become a checkpoint you
need a special pass to get in and out
and it's checked every time permission
can be refused at any time you might
think it's 5 p.m. on a Sunday afternoon
but in fact it's Friday afternoon
normally people would be going shopping
now and Beijing would look like this
it's nice to have a bit more space but
we're feeling a bit lonely
[Music]
and what makes things worse is getting
our temperature measured every 300
meters but is it really such a good idea
to be pressing these devices onto dozens
of different people's wrists the mall is
almost empty too usually we have to wait
half an hour to get a coffee but people
don't feel like going out at least there
are a few young guys playing basketball
bringing a bit of life to the place but
I'm surprised they aren't wearing masks
at the moment they're still disinfectant
to clean our hands but for how much
longer
at the supermarket entrance another
checkpoint at least there's a bit more
life here since being in quarantine
cooking has become our main activity the
sight of these supermarket shelves is
almost comforting but only almost we've
all seen the images of empty shelves in
the city of Wuhan on social media
the situation at the epicenter of the
outbreak where thousands are sick is
ever-present it's feeding a sense of
collective anxiety that's even though
our situation is nothing like the one in
Wuhan in Beijing there are only a
hundred official coronavirus cases the
capital is hermetically sealed off
nonetheless
in the subway I'm meeting miss Lee my
interpreter before I even say hello I
already know her skin temperature thirty
two point one degrees Celsius all subway
entrances are now fitted with infrared
cameras if your temperature tops 37.3
degrees you're isolated behind a
barricade and sent to the hospital and
of course there's also someone checking
for face masks in the subway not that
there's much to check normally the
trains look like this
the real problem is the shortage of
masks together with ms lee i'm going to
investigate the problem
[Music]
no we're closed try there here it says
mosques sold out hello do you still have
mosques only electric ones
can I look he only has a mask for 40
euros which of course he offers us
straight off when it definitely got
against the virus which virus do you
mean the corona virus of course you have
to change all the standard masks every
two days to be on the safe side every
two days yes to ensure that you're
protected against a virus that isn't
necessary with this electrical mask it
can be used for two months no problem
two months what about the standard masks
like yours could I have one like that
no I don't have anymore you're too late
they're sold out for today should I try
again tomorrow
yes that's normally how it works but get
here early because we only get a limited
number of masks everyone in the district
knows that so they arrive early we're
prepared to wait in line everything
linked to this outbreak is controlled by
the government
it's rationing the amount of masks that
we're allowed to sell could you stop
filming please it'd be better if you
didn't film this okay
I go to Tiananmen Square to see what it
looks like in the heart of the city the
pavements are cordoned off you can only
get around the square by bike
on its north side is the Forbidden City
everywhere there are police officers
guarding the entrance to this huge
palace complex turned museum it has
never been more forbidden than now just
a few metres away zhang nan hai the seed
of the State Council and the Communist
Party headquarters the country's top
leadership both lives and works behind
this gate cordoned off because of fear
of the virus it's impossible to stop
here
[Music]
I'm familiar now with the situation in
my district and in the city center but
what about the working class districts
on the outskirts of Beijing are they
under the same quarantine the companies
are housing their workers in small
single wound dormitories in a model
proletariat no one would dare contradict
the party mr. Chen is a chauffeur
I've hired him for a day to show me his
district anyone who wants to enter has
to get registered I'll go out and
arrange it with them no one is allowed
into the quarter without a pass we try
it using mr. Chen's this is my pass for
the quarter we aren't the only ones
waiting everyone's being checked by the
neighborhood committee's the Communist
Party's security apparatus is
omnipresent in the fight against the
virus the committee's are the party's
local arm it's their job to enforce the
quarantines in the affected districts
they issue the permits and inform
authorities about anyone who is running
a temperature or not wearing a mask the
neighborhood committees have grown since
the beginning of the crisis these people
call themselves volunteers United in the
battle against the virus but whether
they've got an armband or not they are
in fact paid by the city authorities to
ensure people stick by the rules the
checks are strict and you can only leave
the area for restricted hours to our
surprise they allow us to proceed when
the gates are closed you can't get in no
matter what recently I had to sleep in
the car the streets and alleyways are
empty here too it's not easy to find
someone to interview this man is the
only one he's venturing outside for the
first time in two days I've got potatoes
noodles garlic tofu and vegetables
when I went shopping I needed to buy
more than usual because there are three
of us and I'm the only one who leaves
the apartment every two or three days so
goodbye
back home there's a surprise waiting for
me
[Music]
this is the first time I've seen an
ambulance outside the entrance of our
apartment block and yet no suspected
cases have been reported
[Music]
for our reassurance we can see
practically in real time whether or not
there are sick people in our building
there are several apps that localize
people who have the virus this blue dot
is me this is our building around it the
yellow buildings are ones where sick
people are recorded as living the darker
the color the more recent the case every
red dot is a coronavirus case no one
slips through the net in a society where
everyone is tracked by shopping going
about their daily business or via facial
recognition I click here on the ill
person to see where they have been to a
fruit dealer and a bistro there two or
three kilometers away we are here and
we're definitely not going to walk three
kilometers to buy an apple so it's fine
Voeckler develop model du cinma
technique on these new technologies make
everyday life a lot easier but they also
create fear the apps show most of the
sick as being in the center of Beijing
the main shopping drag wangfujing is
dead usually Beijing's equivalent of the
Zhang's Alizee is thronging with people
out shopping or window shopping but
today there are public health videos
rather than ads playing on the
electronic billboards
[Music]
the food market in the middle of the
street where you used to be able to buy
insect larvae and scorpions is closed
there's a sign saying it's going to be
renovated but it doesn't say when these
are agonizingly long days for store and
restaurant owners miss.jeong is in
charge of the only open cafe around here
today I'm her only customer when the
epidemic first broke out we had to find
a way of coping we assumed the whole
thing would probably go on for the first
half of the year I have a lot of friends
in the restaurant trade and we're all in
the same situation we're under a lot of
pressure if our estimates are correct we
don't know when business is going to
pick up again and we're keeping a very
close eye on developments when things
improve we'll hear about it on the news
we keep calculating when we might have
more guests again based on the latest
infection figures for change regime
coming up the city is sleeping but we're
going stir-crazy at home so we decide to
go out it'll do us good because we can't
be visited by anyone from outside and
everything is closed we pay a visit to
our neighbor Gary up to now we had only
met on the parking lot the second-hand
car dealer lives here with his wife and
cat for more than a month now he has
been sitting at home and twiddling his
thumbs like all of us since the start of
the quarantine he hasn't missed any of
the news broadcasts on CCTV Chinese
state television in 2003 at the time of
the SARS epidemic I was in my third year
at the University I think people were
less worried back then
well people are far more worried than
there were about SARS people are saying
that the mood is different because of we
jac fear is spreading echoes were
communicating with one another more due
to social media at the time of SARS
these platforms didn't exist in 2003 the
authorities in Beijing committed grave
mistakes they hushed things up and that
created big problems but I believe they
have made progress and they've got the
situation pretty much under control now
maybe they tried to cover things up at
first I don't know 20 there are examples
based on the information he hears from
the government gary prefers to stay at
home every evening state TV shows images
of the crisis pictures of hospitals
patients and above all the military and
medics working together in perfect
coordination and on the ground shots
from cities where the state apparatus is
naturally shown is intervening swiftly
and efficiently even cleaning the street
with mops the premiere sets a good
example the message everything is under
control
as every day goes by more people
disappear from Beijing's streets
normally there's an almost constant flow
of cars and consumers along this road
today
nothing just silence
this banner reads we are all United and
thanks to this trust and a scientific
strategy of state leadership this
epidemic will be vanquished the regime
is obsessed by the concern that fear
about the virus could spark social
unrest or criticism of the leaders the
party seems more worried about that than
about the corona virus itself people
spreading information on social media
can expect sanctions bloggers found bing
was arrested at home by the police who's
there the police the police yes open up
why are there so many of you stop taking
photos why are you here we're here
because of you where are you taking me
what do you want from me
come on open the door first I want to
know where you're taking me finally the
police broke the door down Phan Bing
hasn't been seen since
the blogger had been filming since the
start of the crisis in Wuhan and posting
his videos on social media he ventured
into hospitals showed overflowing
waiting rooms dying patients and doctors
and nurses at breaking point unsanitized
images hundreds of thousands of Chinese
people had been following him online and
watching how he openly denounced
government inefficiency it's your
punishment and pay for your deeds all
anti-communist forces must unite even if
you arrest me I am not afraid an
unbearable affront to the regime but
this type of video managed to spread
through social media before the
government was able to intervene so too
did videos filmed by Chen Shushi in
Wuhan hospitals he showed sick people
not being treated desperate people who
are not being attended to despite having
had a fever for days
hello this is jenshaw chief it's 11 a.m.
on January the 30th this was his last
video before he was quarantined I'm
frightened I have the virus before my
eyes and state security breathing down
my neck but I'm not gonna let that get
me down I'll carry on reporting in this
city as long as I live and I'll show
what I see and hear go to hell does the
communist regime think that I'm afraid
over the last few days I've noticed a
few posts on WeChat and Dube on the
Chinese equivalent of Facebook and
Twitter that also challenged the
official line they were written by a
blogger couple in Beijing accompanied by
an interpreter I visit them in their
small city centre apartment we haven't
been outside for days and we're just
killing time since the start of the
crisis there has been a rise in the
number of citizen journalists in China
trying to disseminate information to
supplement the official version of
events a tentative breath of freedom
with limited means the two blockers
wanted to spark a mini revolution after
dr. Li wen Liang died the doctor from
Wuhan was the first to try to warn the
public about the new disease he was
arrested but died after contracting the
illness and became a symbol for this
absurd system that silences people to
maintain the regime's stability when dr.
Lee died people were sad and angry I
wanted to honor him by getting as many
people as possible to use a drawing of
his face as their profile picture in
social media or to send posts with
messages like it's no crime to express
your opinion or have a safe journey to
paradise a kind of online demonstration
three minutes after I had posted my call
to action thousands of users had changed
their profile picture and shared my post
the internet police got wind of it and
sent me a warning the content you posted
will be deleted as it could lead to
unrest if you refuse to cooperate your
account will be permanently deleted in
China everything functions via social
media payment systems communication
smart ticketing for public transport if
you don't have an account you're down
and out at first
chi-chan and Sun lien life week reported
very actively on the situation
then state television sent 300 reporters
to Wuhan with the aim of steering public
opinion and quashing other reports the
regime now rules with a hard hand the
media has also been placed in quarantine
China citizens are not just effectively
incarcerated at home they only have
access to information permitted by the
regime the two bloggers are suffering
the consequences too just so here we are
no internet our apps are no longer
online the software tools that they use
to dodge the censors and gain access to
banned web sites such as Twitter have
also been blocked week two of our
quarantine the barricades at the
entrances of our housing complex have
now been reinforced with 2 meter high
green wire fencing though it's not as if
anyone could have gotten through the
cordon as it was every day is like the
next a never-ending stream of suppliers
provides us with the essentials
but collecting the water containers is
getting more and more difficult we feel
a little more locked in with every day
that passes
loulou wings her cousin to find out how
her daughter is doing the seven-year-old
hasn't left the family apartment for
several weeks now better she's just
getting dressed her school is closed of
course remote learning is the order of
the day with classes tell your aunt I
sit down at the table and switch on the
television I learned my lessons there
and when I'm finished the teacher gives
me my homework now do you speak to one
another via Skype like we are now no it
was like that at first the teacher could
see us but now it's all on television
and the teacher can't see us anymore
Lulu's cousin shows us what daily life
is like for her daughter Tong Tong is an
only child her daily routine under
quarantine is carefully planned she gets
up at 8 a.m. then it's time for
breakfast the rest of the morning is
devoted to learning and the day starts
with an exercise class just like at
school two days ago we started having to
pass through this large military tent
the monitoring system has become more
tightly organized
the color of the past has now changed to
reflect the number of sick people in the
vicinity ours are pistachio green no
idea what that means
we film secretly using our mobile phones
cameras are not welcome in the
monitoring zones
[Music]
outside it's worse than ever the streets
are almost empty the only people we meet
are either wearing a red armband
or are there to take our temperature
[Music]
we also empty the basketball players
have disappeared - the court is now
closed until further notice
[Music]
can I have my pass on our way back
through the tent we get stopped again
[Music]
how long have you had this past come on
sorry
did you leave Beijing no no you're going
to get new passes will make you two new
ones these are too old why are we
getting new ones because they're better
they're valid longer okay we only have
two passes for three family members and
now they're white is that a good or a
bad sign I have no idea but we don't
complain others have only got one pass
and are only allowed to leave their
homes every two or three days week four
of the quarantine the barricades now too
high to pass over any water containers
[Music]